

=== PAGE 1 ===

ARES: An Automated Evaluation Framework for Retrieval-Augmented
Generation Systems
Jon Saad-Falcon
Stanford University ∗
jonsaadfalcon@stanford.edu
Omar Khattab
Stanford University
okhattab@stanford.edu
Christopher Potts
Stanford University
cgpotts@stanford.edu
Matei Zaharia
Databricks and UC Berkeley
matei@databricks.com
Abstract
Evaluating
retrieval-augmented
generation
(RAG) systems traditionally relies on hand
annotations for input queries, passages to re-
trieve, and responses to generate. We intro-
duce ARES, an Automated RAG Evaluation
System, for evaluating RAG systems along
the dimensions of context relevance, answer
faithfulness, and answer relevance. By cre-
ating its own synthetic training data, ARES
finetunes lightweight LM judges to assess the
quality of individual RAG components. To
mitigate potential prediction errors, ARES uti-
lizes a small set of human-annotated datapoints
for prediction-powered inference (PPI). Across
eight different knowledge-intensive tasks in
KILT, SuperGLUE, and AIS, ARES accurately
evaluates RAG systems while using only a few
hundred human annotations during evaluation.
Furthermore, ARES judges remain effective
across domain shifts, proving accurate even
after changing the type of queries and/or docu-
ments used in the evaluated RAG systems. We
make our code and datasets publicly available
on Github.
1
Introduction
Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) has be-
come a prominent approach for building user-
facing NLP applications, such as systems for ques-
tion answering (QA), fact-checking, and customer
support (Petroni et al., 2021; Wang et al., 2019).
Typically, a RAG system consists of a retriever and
a downstream language model (LM). Given a user
question, the retriever finds relevant passages from
a corpus and the LM uses these passages to gener-
ate a response. This formulation admits a multitude
of choices: what retrieval model to use, how to di-
vide the documents into retrieval chunks, and how
to prompt or finetune the LM to use the retrieved
information, to name only a few of the simplest
design decisions.
∗Project started during research internship at Databricks
The best design for a RAG system is not neces-
sarily universal across data domains, corpus sizes,
and cost/latency budgets. To tune their own RAG
systems, practitioners traditionally need hand an-
notations for test questions, passages to retrieve
(to assess the retriever), and responses to generate,
labeled specifically for their target domain. Alter-
natively, they may evaluate different approaches in
production by collecting human preferences that
compare the candidate systems.
Unfortunately,
both of these strategies demand high expertise and
impose considerable annotation costs.
Model-based evaluation is an inexpensive strat-
egy to test generative output quality (Zheng et al.,
2023).
For instance, the open-source RAGAS
framework (James and Es, 2023) prompts an LM
for evaluating the relevance of retrieved informa-
tion and the faithfulness and accuracy of generated
responses. Unfortunately, such strategies currently
rely for evaluation on a fixed set of heuristically
hand-written prompts, offering little adaptability
to various evaluation contexts and no guarantees
about quality.
To evaluate RAG systems rapidly and accu-
rately, we propose ARES, the Automated RAG
Evaluation System. ARES is the first automated
RAG evaluation system to generate tailored LLM
judges for each component of a RAG pipeline, lead-
ing to substantial boosts in evaluation precision and
accuracy compared to existing approaches like RA-
GAS. Furthermore, unlike existing RAG evaluation
systems, ARES provides confidence intervals for
its scoring by leveraging prediction-powered in-
ference (PPI; Angelopoulos et al. 2023). Given a
corpus of documents and a RAG system, ARES
reports three evaluation scores: context relevance
(is the retrieved information pertinent to the test
question), answer faithfulness (is the response gen-
erated by the language model properly grounded
in the retrieved context), and answer relevance (is
the response also relevant to the question). A good
arXiv:2311.09476v2  [cs.CL]  31 Mar 2024


=== PAGE 2 ===

RAG system finds relevant contexts and generates
answers that are both faithful and relevant.
Many existing RAG evaluation frameworks re-
quire substantial human annotations for scoring.
ARES significantly improves data efficiency dur-
ing evaluation by only requiring three inputs: an in-
domain passage set, a human preference validation
set of approximately 150 annotated datapoints or
more, and few-shot examples of in-domain queries
and answers (e.g. five examples or more), which
are used for prompting LLMs in synthetic data gen-
eration.
Given the corpus of in-domain passages, ARES
proceeds in three stages. First, it leverages an LM
to construct a synthetic dataset of question–answer
pairs, derived from the passages in the corpus. Sec-
ond, it defines three separate judge models to per-
form three classification tasks (context relevance,
answer faithfulness, and answer relevance). These
judges are lightweight models fine-tuned against a
contrastive learning objective. Third, ARES scores
the different RAG systems being assessed using
prediction-powered inference (PPI; Angelopoulos
et al. 2023) to improve model-based evaluation ac-
curacy and provide statistical confidence intervals
for RAG scoring. PPI utilizes a small set of human
annotated datapoints for computing its confidence
intervals; we designate this annotated set as our hu-
man preference validation set, which is composed
of approximately 150 annotated datapoints or more
that designate both positive and negative examples
for context relevance, answer faithfulness, and an-
swer relevance.
We conduct extensive empirical evaluations,
demonstrating
that
ARES
accurately
scores
RAG systems across the six knowledge-intensive
datasets in KILT and SuperGLUE, beating exist-
ing automated evaluation approaches like RAGAS
by 59.3 and 14.4 percentage points on average
across context relevance and answer relevance eval-
uation accuracy, respectively. Additionally, ARES
accurately calculates answer hallucination occur-
rences in the AIS attribution dataset (Rashkin et al.,
2022), predicting within 2.5 percentage points of
the ground truth average for answer hallucinations.
Compared to annotation-based evaluation methods,
ARES is substantially more accurate and efficient,
requiring 78% less annotations than the baseline
approach. We also find that ARES consistently
distinguishes competitive RAG systems that are
only a few points apart in ground-truth metrics.
This precision enables ARES to guide the develop-
ment and comparison of competitive approaches
and configurations.
We make the ARES code and datasets publicly
available on Github.
2
Related Work
RAG (Guu et al., 2020; Lewis et al., 2020; Khat-
tab et al., 2021; Izacard et al., 2022)) is now a
common strategy for bolstering LLMs by combin-
ing them with retrieval systems. Through retrieval,
RAG helps LM systems gather domain-specific
knowledge, ground generations in factual informa-
tion (Shuster et al., 2021; Huo et al., 2023), and
offer a degree of transparency or interpretability
via citing sources (Mialon et al., 2023).
Multiple LLM-based evaluation techniques have
emerged for gauging LLM systems. This is essen-
tial for rapid deployment in new settings, where it
is difficult to build a traditional benchmark dataset
from scratch. Early attempts at this use LLMs
out of the box, as in MT-Bench and Chatbot
Arena (Zheng et al., 2023). AutoCalibrate (Liu
et al., 2023b) seeks to align an LLM-judge with
human preferences, leveraging a self-refinement
prompt to iteratively improve the LLM judge. How-
ever, AutoCalibrate does not offer any statistical
guarantees for the accuracy of its predictions. Other
work has used LLM prompting to evaluate system
quality across natural language generation tasks,
such as translation, summarization, and dialogue
(Kocmi and Federmann, 2023; Fu et al., 2023; Liu
et al., 2023a; Wang et al., 2023).
In the context of knowledge-intensive NLP tasks,
LLMs have been explored for assessing attribution
and factuality in LLMs (Min et al., 2023; Gekhman
et al., 2023; Yue et al., 2023). New guidelines
like LongEval (Krishna et al., 2023) and datasets
like Hagrid and ALCE (Kamalloo et al., 2023;
Gao et al., 2023) provide resources for analyzing
knowledge-intensive LLM pipelines.
The two most-closely related projects to ARES
are EXAM (Sander and Dietz, 2021) and RA-
GAS (James and Es, 2023). To evaluate RAG sys-
tems, the EXAM metric estimates how many exam
questions a reader (simulated as a QA system) can
answer correctly based on the generated response.
This requires a set of queries with several asso-
ciated sub-questions each, which adds a burden
that ARES does not bring. RAGAS is based on a
handful of heuristic hand-written prompts. These
offer little adaptability to new RAG evaluation set-


=== PAGE 3 ===

tings (e.g., new corpora) and, as we show in our
evaluation, substantially underperform ARES.
3
