ARES
ARES proceeds in three stages (Figure 1). There
are three required inputs: an in-domain passage set,
a human preference validation set of approximately
150 annotated datapoints (or more), and few-shot
examples of in-domain queries and answers (five
or more examples), which are used for prompting
LLMs in synthetic data generation. With our inputs
prepared, we begin by generating synthetic queries
(and their answers) from the passages in the target
corpus. We then use these query–passage–answer
triples to train LLM judges. Subsequently, we ap-
ply these judges to any RAG system, scoring a
sample of its in-domain query-document-answer
triples, and use prediction-powered inference (PPI)
with our human preference validation set to esti-
mate a confidence interval for the quality of each
RAG system.
3.1
LLM Generation of Synthetic Dataset
We generate synthetic queries and answers from
the corpus passages using generative LLMs. The
generated data represent both positive and negative
examples of query–passage–answer triples (e.g.,
relevant/irrelevant passages and correct/incorrect
answers). For generation, the LLM uses our in-
put set of few-shot examples with in-domain pas-
sages mapped to in-domain queries and answers;
the model then generates a synthetic question and
answer from a given in-domain passage, allowing
us to create both positive and negative training ex-
amples. We include example prompts for generat-
ing synthetic queries and answers in A.6.
For creating our synthetic data, we primarily use
on FLAN-T5 XXL (discussed in subsection 4.1).
ARES works well with this model (see section 5)
but our system can ultimately use another high-
quality model for generating synthetic queries and
answers. We then filter out low-quality queries
by testing if a given query can retrieve its original
passage as the top result using its retriever. This
filtering approach has been used in previous work
to isolate high-quality synthetic queries (Dai et al.,
2022; Saad-Falcon et al., 2023).
To generate negatives for fine-tuning our LLM
judges, we rely on two novel strategies, generating
the same number of negatives with each strategy:
1. Weak Negative Generation: For context rel-
evance negatives, we randomly sample in-
domain passages unrelated to a given syn-
thetic query.
For answer faithfulness and
answer relevance negatives, we randomly
sample synthetically-generated answers from
other passages, which were created using
FLAN-T5 XXL.
2. Strong Negative Generation: For context
relevance negatives, we randomly sample in-
domain passages from the same document as
the gold passage. For datasets in which mul-
tiple passages are not available for the same
document, we use BM25 to retrieve the top-
10 passages similar to the passage and sample
from them for our context relevance strong
negatives. For answer faithfulness and an-
swer relevance negatives, we prompt FLAN-
T5 XXL (subsection 4.1) to generate a contra-
dictory answer using the few-shot prompt in
subsection A.5.
In total, the number of negatives generated
equals the number of positives generated for evalu-
ating context relevance and answer relevance.
3.2
Preparing LLM Judges
To prepare our RAG evaluation judges, we use
our synthetic dataset to fine-tune DeBERTa-v3-
Large judges (discussed in subsection 4.1) to eval-
uate three different capabilities (Chen et al., 2023;
James and Es, 2023):
1. Context Relevance: Is the passage returned
relevant for answering the given query?
2. Answer Faithfulness: Is the answer gener-
ated faithful to the retrieved passage, or does
it contain hallucinated or extrapolated state-
ments beyond the passage?
3. Answer Relevance: Is the answer generated
relevant given the query and retrieved pas-
sage?
For each metric, a separate LLM with a binary
classifier head is fine-tuned to classify positive and
negative examples. For each concatenated query-
document-answer, a single LLM judge must clas-
sify the triple as positive or negative for that judge’s
metric. To fine-tune these judges, we use our hu-
man preference validation set to evaluate model
improvement after each epoch, stopping when we
have three epochs with no improvement in loss (see
subsection A.1 for more information).


=== PAGE 4 ===

Figure 1: Overview of ARES: As inputs, the ARES pipeline requires an in-domain passage set, a human preference
validation set of 150 annotated datapoints or more, and few-shot examples of in-domain queries and answers (five or
more), which are used for prompting LLMs in synthetic data generation. To prepare our LLM judges for evaluation,
we first generate synthetic queries and answers from the corpus passages. Using our generated training triples and a
constrastive learning framework, we fine-tune an LLM to classify query–passage–answer triples in three different
criteria: context relevance, answer faithfulness, and answer relevance. Finally, we use the LLM judges to score
RAG systems and generate confidence bounds for the ranking using PPI and the human preference validation set.
3.3
Ranking RAG Systems with Confidence
Intervals
Once we have prepared our LLM judges, we need
to use them to score and rank the competing RAG
systems. To do this, ARES samples the in-domain
query-document-answer triples produced by each
RAG approach, and the judges label each triple,
predicting their context relevance, answer faithful-
ness, and answer relevance. By averaging the in-
dividual predicted labels for each in-domain triple,
we calculate the RAG system performance across
each of the three metrics.
In principle, we could simply report these aver-
age scores as quality metrics for each RAG system.
However, these scores reflect entirely unlabeled
data with predictions from a synthetically-trained
LLM judge, and hence they may not be entirely
accurate. As an extreme alternative, we could use
just the small human preference validation set dis-
cussed previously for evaluation, reporting the ex-
tent to which each RAG system agrees with (or
deviates from) the human annotations. However,
an annotation-based evaluation approach would re-
quire labeling substantially more generative out-
puts from each RAG systems separately, which can
be costly both in terms of time and financing.
To combine the benefits of both, and hence
boost the precision of the evaluation, ARES uses
prediction-powered inference (PPI; Angelopoulos
et al. 2023) to predict the system scores. PPI is
a recent statistical method that provides tighter
confidence intervals on a small set of annotated
datapoints (i.e., our validation set) by leveraging
predictions on a much larger set of non-annotated
datapoints. PPI can leverage both the labeled dat-
apoints and the ARES judge predictions on the
non-annotated datapoints to construct confidence
intervals for our RAG system’s performance.
To do this, PPI uses the LLM judges on the hu-
man preference validation set to learn a rectifier
function for constructing a confidence set of the ML
model’s performance, using each ML prediction in
the larger non-annotated dataset. The confidence
set can then be used to create a tighter confidence
interval for the performance of the evaluated RAG
system (e.g. its context relevance, answer faithful-
ness, or answer relevance accuracy individually)
compared to simply using annotated outputs from
the evaluated RAG system. By bolstering the hu-
man preference validation set with the much larger
set of datapoints with ML predictions, PPI can de-
velop reliable confidence intervals for ML model
performance that beat previous classical inference
approaches.
The PPI rectifier function allows us to estimate
the errors of the LLM judge and generate confi-
dence bounds for the success and failure rates of the
RAG system, estimating context relevance, answer
faithfulness, and answer relevance performance.
Additionally, PPI allows us to estimate confidence
intervals with a selected level of probability; for our
experiments, we use a standard 95% alpha (proba-
bility) for our confidence interval.
With the accuracy confidence interval for each
component of the RAG, we find the midpoint of
each confidence interval and use the midpoints to
rank the RAG systems. With our ranking, we can
compare different RAG systems, as well as differ-
ent configurations of the same RAG system, to find
the best-performing approach for a given domain.


=== PAGE 5 ===

4
