Experiments
4.1
Models
For our fine-tuned judges, ARES relies on generat-
ing cheap but quality synthetic queries and answers
using LLMs. For generating our synthetic datasets,
we use FLAN-T5 XXL (Chung et al., 2022). We se-
lected DeBERTa-v3-Large (He et al., 2021) for our
fine-tuned LLM judge. Our fine-tuned LLM judges
allow us to rank RAG systems without relying on
external APIs, solely using few-shot prompts and
deployable LLMs on commercial GPUs.
For our in-context learning baseline, we use Ope-
nAI’s gpt-3.5-turbo-16k, version 10/23, (Brown
et al., 2020) in a zero/few-shot setting. For similar-
ity search over in-domain passages, we use FAISS
IndexFlatL2 for indexing (Johnson et al., 2019)
and OpenAI’s text-embedding-ada-002 for gener-
ating embeddings. We use simlarity search over
in-domain passages to filter our synthetic queries
that cannot retrieve the passage from which they
were generated. We use version 0.0.18 of RAGAS
in our experiments (James and Es, 2023).
4.2
Datasets
Our core experimental goal is to provide a rich
picture of where ARES can be applied effectively.
To test across multiple types of queries, documents,
and answers, we selected all the datasets from the
widely-used KILT and SuperGLUE benchmarks
for which RAG is appropriate.
From KILT (Petroni et al., 2021), we use Natural
Questions (NQ), HotpotQA, FEVER, and Wizards
of Wikipedia (WoW) (Kwiatkowski et al., 2019;
Yang et al., 2018; Akhtar et al., 2023; Dinan et al.,
2018). Each dataset uses Wikipedia passages but
the queries and answers offer a range of applica-
tions. Both NQ and HotpotQA feature direct ques-
tions and expect short answers, but NQ uses single
passages for reasoning while HotpotQA requires
multiple passages for reasoning.
Furthermore,
FEVER focuses on fact-verification, determining if
a passage supports or refutes a given statement, and
expects an output of “SUPPORTS” or “REFUTES”.
WoW seeks to evaluate dialogue agents by mapping
user dialogue to relevant Wikipedia passages be-
fore a chatbot generates a paragraph-length chat
response incorporating passage knowledge.
From SuperGLUE (Wang et al., 2019), we use
MultiRC and ReCoRD (Khashabi et al., 2018;
Zhang et al., 2018).
MultiRC focuses on di-
rect questions for seven different domains (News,
Wikipedia articles, articles on society/law/justice,
articles on history/anthropology, elementary school
science textbooks, 9/11 reports, and fiction).
ReCoRD focuses on determining the placeholder
entity in a statement, focusing on news articles
from CNN and the Daily Mail. For MultiRC and
ReCoRD, we create open-domain versions of their
tasks. For MultiRC, we perform retrieval over its
seven sets of domain passages. For ReCoRD, we
perform retrieval over its news article passages.
The efficacy of ARES relies on its ability to rank
different RAG systems while only using a human
preference validation set and domain-targeted LLM
judges. To test the limits of ARES, we need to sim-
ulate the existence of many RAG systems that are
separated by small accuracy margins on our eval-
uation metrics. For this, we create systems using
artificial query-passage-answer triples, in which
we empirically know the positive and negative ex-
amples of the mock RAG system. We generate
these mock splits of the given datasets by select-
ing (1) The positive and negative query-passage
matches for context relevance, and (2) the positive
and negative query-passage-answer matches for an-
swer relevance. We include positive and negative
examples from our evaluation sets in Table 7.
For our positive triples, we can simply use the
KILT and SuperGLUE examples without any al-
teration.
For gathering negative query-passage
pairs and query-passage-answer triples, we ran-
domly sample passages and answers from either:
the same Wikipedia document or an entirely ran-
dom Wikipedia document. This sampling allows
us to artificially create mock RAG systems for test-
ing ARES. By sampling both related and unrelated
documents/answers, we hope to better gauge the
efficacy of ARES in judging RAG outputs.
We do not evaluate answer faithfulness for KILT
and SuperGLUE datasets since we do not have
human-annotated hallucinated answers to use for
evaluation. However, we do test the ARES frame-
work on real attribution datasets in Section 5.2.
Using the validation subsets for each KILT
and SuperGLUE dataset, we create nine different
dataset splits, ranging from 70% success rate to
90% success rate for each of the evaluated RAG
criteria; each dataset is separated by 2.5% accuracy
points (e.g. 70.0%, 72.5%, 75.0%, ..., 90.0%).
Each split also represents a different mock RAG
system. Since we know the success percentages of
each dataset split, we know the appropriate rank-
ing of each mock RAG system. This allows us to


=== PAGE 6 ===

test ARES success at both scoring and ranking the
mock RAG systems appropriately across the three
evaluation criteria.
4.3
Metrics
To calculate the correlation between the correct
ranking and the ARES ranking, we use the Kendall
rank correlation coefficient or Kendall’s τ:
τ = (# of concordant pairs) −(# of discordant pairs)
# of pairs total
Concordant pairs are defined as two ordinal val-
ues in the ranking where the earlier value in the
sequence is lower than the later value in the se-
quence. Discordant pairs are defined as two ordinal
values in the ranking where the earlier value in the
sequence is greater than or equal to the later value
in the sequence. A Kendall’s τ greater than 0.9 is
considered successful but it ranges from 0.0 to 1.0.
In development, researchers and engineers
will be comparing different RAG configurations
through individual pairwise comparisons of model
choices, retriever selection, and document prepro-
cessing. We want to make sure that ARES has satis-
factory accuracy in pairwise comparisons across a
variety of performance gaps between RAG systems.
Kendall’s τ is explicitly designed for measuring the
accuracy of such pairwise comparisons, calculating
the correlation between a perfectly accurate pair-
wise ranking and an experimental pairwise ranking.
Thus, it is a popular and widespread metric used in
information retrieval, allowing developers to eval-
uate ranking systems empirically. Therefore, we
believe Kendall’s tau and prediction accuracy pro-
vide meaningful metrics for testing the efficacy of
ARES as a RAG evaluation system.
5
