From Local to Global: A GraphRAG Approach to
Query-Focused Summarization
Darren Edge1†
Ha Trinh1†
Newman Cheng2
Joshua Bradley2
Alex Chao3
Apurva Mody3
Steven Truitt2
Dasha Metropolitansky1
Robert Osazuwa Ness1
Jonathan Larson1
1Microsoft Research
2Microsoft Strategic Missions and Technologies
3Microsoft Office of the CTO
{daedge,trinhha,newmancheng,joshbradley,achao,moapurva,
steventruitt,dasham,robertness,jolarso}@microsoft.com
†These authors contributed equally to this work
Abstract
The use of retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) to retrieve relevant informa-
tion from an external knowledge source enables large language models (LLMs)
to answer questions over private and/or previously unseen document collections.
However, RAG fails on global questions directed at an entire text corpus, such
as “What are the main themes in the dataset?”, since this is inherently a query-
focused summarization (QFS) task, rather than an explicit retrieval task. Prior
QFS methods, meanwhile, do not scale to the quantities of text indexed by typ-
ical RAG systems. To combine the strengths of these contrasting methods, we
propose GraphRAG, a graph-based approach to question answering over private
text corpora that scales with both the generality of user questions and the quantity
of source text. Our approach uses an LLM to build a graph index in two stages:
first, to derive an entity knowledge graph from the source documents, then to pre-
generate community summaries for all groups of closely related entities. Given a
question, each community summary is used to generate a partial response, before
all partial responses are again summarized in a final response to the user. For a
class of global sensemaking questions over datasets in the 1 million token range,
we show that GraphRAG leads to substantial improvements over a conventional
RAG baseline for both the comprehensiveness and diversity of generated answers.
1
Introduction
Retrieval augmented generation (RAG) (Lewis et al., 2020) is an established approach to using
LLMs to answer queries based on data that is too large to contain in a language model’s context
window, meaning the maximum number of tokens (units of text) that can be processed by the LLM
at once (Kuratov et al., 2024; Liu et al., 2023). In the canonical RAG setup, the system has access to
a large external corpus of text records and retrieves a subset of records that are individually relevant
to the query and collectively small enough to fit into the context window of the LLM. The LLM then
Preprint. Under review.
arXiv:2404.16130v2  [cs.CL]  19 Feb 2025
generates a response based on both the query and the retrieved records (Baumel et al., 2018; Dang,
2006; Laskar et al., 2020; Yao et al., 2017). This conventional approach, which we collectively call
vector RAG, works well for queries that can be answered with information localized within a small
set of records. However, vector RAG approaches do not support sensemaking queries, meaning
queries that require global understanding of the entire dataset, such as ”What are the key trends in
how scientific discoveries are influenced by interdisciplinary research over the past decade?”
Sensemaking tasks require reasoning over “connections (which can be among people, places, and
events) in order to anticipate their trajectories and act effectively” (Klein et al., 2006). LLMs such
as GPT (Achiam et al., 2023; Brown et al., 2020), Llama (Touvron et al., 2023), and Gemini (Anil
et al., 2023) excel at sensemaking in complex domains like scientific discovery (Microsoft, 2023)
and intelligence analysis (Ranade and Joshi, 2023). Given a sensemaking query and a text with an
implicit and interconnected set of concepts, an LLM can generate a summary that answers the query.
The challenge, however, arises when the volume of data requires a RAG approach, since vector RAG
approaches are unable to support sensemaking over an entire corpus.
In this paper, we present GraphRAG – a graph-based RAG approach that enables sensemaking over
the entirety of a large text corpus. GraphRAG first uses an LLM to construct a knowledge graph,
where nodes correspond to key entities in the corpus and edges represent relationships between those
entities. Next, it partitions the graph into a hierarchy of communities of closely related entities,
before using an LLM to generate community-level summaries. These summaries are generated in
a bottom-up manner following the hierarchical structure of extracted communities, with summaries
at higher levels of the hierarchy recursively incorporating lower-level summaries. Together, these
community summaries provide global descriptions and insights over the corpus. Finally, GraphRAG
answers queries through map-reduce processing of community summaries; in the map step, the
summaries are used to provide partial answers to the query independently and in parallel, then in the
reduce step, the partial answers are combined and used to generate a final global answer.
The GraphRAG method and its ability to perform global sensemaking over an entire corpus form
the main contribution of this work. To demonstrate this ability, we developed a novel application
of the LLM-as-a-judge technique (Zheng et al., 2024) suitable for questions targeting broad issues
and themes where there is no ground-truth answer. This approach first uses one LLM to generate
a diverse set of global sensemaking questions based on corpus-specific use cases, before using a
second LLM to judge the answers of two different RAG systems using predefined criteria (defined
in Section 3.3). We use this approach to compare GraphRAG to vector RAG on two representative
real-world text datasets. Results show GraphRAG strongly outperforms vector RAG when using
GPT-4 as the LLM.
GraphRAG is available as open-source software at https://github.com/microsoft/graphrag. In ad-
dition, versions of the GraphRAG approach are also available as extensions to multiple open-
source libraries, including LangChain (LangChain, 2024), LlamaIndex (LlamaIndex, 2024), Nebu-
laGraph (NebulaGraph, 2024), and Neo4J (Neo4J, 2024).
2
Background
2.1
RAG Approaches and Systems
RAG generally refers to any system where a user query is used to retrieve relevant information from
external data sources, whereupon this information is incorporated into the generation of a response
to the query by an LLM (or other generative AI model, such as a multi-media model). The query and
retrieved records populate a prompt template, which is then passed to the LLM (Ram et al., 2023).
RAG is ideal when the total number of records in a data source is too large to include in a single
prompt to the LLM, i.e. the amount of text in the data source exceeds the LLM’s context window.
In canonical RAG approaches, the retrieval process returns a set number of records that are seman-
tically similar to the query and the generated answer uses only the information in those retrieved
records. A common approach to conventional RAG is to use text embeddings, retrieving records
closest to the query in vector space where closeness corresponds to semantic similarity (Gao et al.,
2023). While some RAG approaches may use alternative retrieval mechanisms, we collectively refer
to the family of conventional approaches as vector RAG. GraphRAG contrasts with vector RAG in
its ability to answer queries that require global sensemaking over the entire data corpus.
2
GraphRAG builds upon prior work on advanced RAG strategies. GraphRAG leverages summaries
over large sections of the data source as a form of ”self-memory” (described in Cheng et al. 2024),
which are later used to answer queries as in Mao et al. 2020). These summaries are generated in
parallel and iteratively aggregated into global summaries, similar to prior techniques (Feng et al.,
2023; Gao et al., 2023; Khattab et al., 2022; Shao et al., 2023; Su et al., 2020; Trivedi et al., 2022;
Wang et al., 2024). In particular, GraphRAG is similar to other approaches that use hierarchical
indexing to create summaries (similar to Kim et al. 2023; Sarthi et al. 2024). GraphRAG contrasts
with these approaches by generating a graph index from the source data, then applying graph-based
community detection to create a thematic partitioning of the data.
2.2
Using Knowledge Graphs with LLMs and RAG
Approaches to knowledge graph extraction from natural language text corpora include rule-
matching, statistical pattern recognition, clustering, and embeddings (Etzioni et al., 2004; Kim et al.,
2016; Mooney and Bunescu, 2005; Yates et al., 2007). GraphRAG falls into a more recent body of
research that use of LLMs for knowledge graph extraction (Ban et al., 2023; Melnyk et al., 2022;
OpenAI, 2023; Tan et al., 2017; Trajanoska et al., 2023; Yao et al., 2023; Yates et al., 2007; Zhang
et al., 2024a). It also adds to a growing body of RAG approaches that use a knowledge graph as
an index (Gao et al., 2023). Some techniques use subgraphs, elements of the graph, or properties
of the graph structure directly in the prompt (Baek et al., 2023; He et al., 2024; Zhang, 2023)
or as factual grounding for generated outputs (Kang et al., 2023; Ranade and Joshi, 2023). Other
techniques (Wang et al., 2023b) use the knowledge graph to enhance retrieval, where at query time
an LLM-based agent dynamically traverses a graph with nodes representing document elements
(e.g., passages, tables) and edges encoding lexical and semantical similarity or structural relation-
ships. GraphRAG contrasts with these approaches by focusing on a previously unexplored quality of
graphs in this context: their inherent modularity (Newman, 2006) and the ability to partition graphs
into nested modular communities of closely related nodes (e.g., Louvain, Blondel et al. 2008; Lei-
den, Traag et al. 2019). Specifically, GraphRAG recursively creates increasingly global summaries
by using the LLM to create summaries spanning this community hierarchy.
2.3
Adaptive benchmarking for RAG Evaluation
Many benchmark datasets for open-domain question answering exist, including HotPotQA (Yang
et al., 2018), MultiHop-RAG (Tang and Yang, 2024), and MT-Bench (Zheng et al., 2024). However,
these benchmarks are oriented towards vector RAG performance, i.e., they evaluate performance
on explicit fact retrieval. In this work, we propose an approach for generating a set of questions
for evaluating global sensemaking over the entirety of the corpus. Our approach is related to LLM
methods that use a corpus to generate questions whose answers would be summaries of the corpus,
such as in Xu and Lapata (2021). However, in order to produce a fair evaluation, our method avoids
generating the questions directly from the corpus itself (as an alternative implementation, one can
use a subset of the corpus held out from subsequent graph extraction and answer evaluation steps).
Adaptive benchmarking refers to the process of dynamically generating evaluation benchmarks tai-
lored to specific domains or use cases. Recent work has used LLMs for adaptive benchmarking
to ensure relevance, diversity, and alignment with the target application or task (Yuan et al., 2024;
Zhang et al., 2024b). In this work, we propose an adaptive benchmarking approach to generating
global sensemaking queries for the LLM. Our approach builds on prior work in LLM-based persona
generation, where the LLM is used to generate diverse and authentic sets of personas (Kosinski,
2024; Salminen et al., 2024; Shin et al., 2024). Our adaptive benchmarking procedure uses persona
generation to create queries that are representative of real-world RAG system usage. Specifically,
our approach uses the LLM to infer the potential users would use the RAG system and their use
cases, which guide the generation of corpus-specific sensemaking queries.
2.4
RAG evaluation criteria
Our evaluation relies on the LLM to evaluate how well the RAG system answers the generated ques-
tions. Prior work has shown LLMs to be good evaluators of natural language generation, includ-
ing work where LLMs evaluations were competitive with human evaluations (Wang et al., 2023a;
Zheng et al., 2024). Some prior work proposes criteria for having LLMs quantify the quality of
3
Source Documents
Text Chunks
text extraction
and chunking
Entities & Relationships
domain-tailored
summarization
Knowledge Graph
domain-tailored
summarization
Graph Communities
community
detection
Community Summaries
domain-tailored
summarization
Community Answers
query-focused
summarization
Global Answer
query-focused
summarization
Indexing Time
Query Time
Pipeline Stage
Figure 1: Graph RAG pipeline using an LLM-derived graph index of source document text. This
graph index spans nodes (e.g., entities), edges (e.g., relationships), and covariates (e.g., claims)
that have been detected, extracted, and summarized by LLM prompts tailored to the domain of the
dataset. Community detection (e.g., Leiden, Traag et al., 2019) is used to partition the graph index
into groups of elements (nodes, edges, covariates) that the LLM can summarize in parallel at both
indexing time and query time. The “global answer” to a given query is produced using a final round
of query-focused summarization over all community summaries reporting relevance to that query.
generated texts such as “fluency” (Wang et al., 2023a) Some of these criteria are generic to vector
RAG systems and not relevant to global sensemaking, such as “context relevance”, “faithfulness”,
and “answer relevance” (RAGAS, Es et al. 2023). Lacking a gold standard for evaluation, one can
quantify relative performance for a given criterion by prompting the LLM to compare generations
from two different competing models (LLM-as-a-judge, (Zheng et al., 2024)). In this work, we de-
sign criteria for evaluating RAG-generated answers to global sensemaking questions and evaluate
our results using the comparative approach. We also validate results using statistics derived from
LLM-extracted statements of verifiable facts, or “claims.”
3
