Methods
3.1
GraphRAG Workflow
Figure 1 illustrates the high-level data flow of the GraphRAG approach and pipeline. In this section,
we describe the key design parameters, techniques, and implementation details for each step.
3.1.1
Source Documents →Text Chunks
To start, the documents in the corpus are split into text chunks. The LLM extracts information from
each chunk for downstream processing. Selecting the size of the chunk is a fundamental design
decision; longer text chunks require fewer LLM calls for such extraction (which reduces cost) but
suffer from degraded recall of information that appears early in the chunk (Kuratov et al., 2024; Liu
et al., 2023). See Section A.1 for prompts and examples of the recall-precision trade-offs.
3.1.2
Text Chunks →Entities & Relationships
In this step, the LLM is prompted to extract instances of important entities and the relationships
between the entities from a given chunk. Additionally, the LLM generates short descriptions for the
entities and relationships. To illustrate, suppose a chunk contained the following text:
4
NeoChip’s (NC) shares surged in their first week of trading on the NewTech Ex-
change. However, market analysts caution that the chipmaker’s public debut may
not reflect trends for other technology IPOs. NeoChip, previously a private entity,
was acquired by Quantum Systems in 2016. The innovative semiconductor firm
specializes in low-power processors for wearables and IoT devices.
The LLM is prompted such that it extracts the following:
• The entity NeoChip, with description “NeoChip is a publicly traded company specializing
in low-power processors for wearables and IoT devices.”
• The entity Quantum Systems, with description “Quantum Systems is a firm that previ-
ously owned NeoChip.”
• A relationship between NeoChip and Quantum Systems, with description “Quantum Sys-
tems owned NeoChip from 2016 until NeoChip became publicly traded.”
These prompts can be tailored to the domain of the document corpus by choosing domain appropriate
few-shot exemplars for in-context learning (Brown et al., 2020). For example, while our default
prompt extracts the broad class of “named entities” like people, places, and organizations and is
generally applicable, domains with specialized knowledge (e.g., science, medicine, law) will benefit
from few-shot exemplars specialized to those domains.
The LLM can also be prompted to extract claims about detected entities. Claims are important
factual statements about entities, such as dates, events, and interactions with other entities. As
with entities and relationships, in-context learning exemplars can provide domain-specific guidance.
Claim descriptions extracted from the example tetx chunk are as follows:
• NeoChip’s shares surged during their first week of trading on the NewTech Exchange.
• NeoChip debuted as a publicly listed company on the NewTech Exchange.
• Quantum Systems acquired NeoChip in 2016 and held ownership until NeoChip went pub-
lic.
See Appendix A for prompts and details on our implementation of entity and claim extraction.
3.1.3
Entities & Relationships →Knowledge Graph
The use of an LLM to extract entities, relationships, and claims is a form of abstractive summariza-
tion – these are meaningful summaries of concepts that, in the case of relationships and claims, may
not be explicitly stated in the text. The entity/relationship/claim extraction processes creates mul-
tiple instances of a single element because an element is typically detected and extracted multiple
times across documents.
In the final step of the knowledge graph extraction process, these instances of entities and rela-
tionships become individual nodes and edges in the graph. Entity descriptions are aggregated and
summarized for each node and edge. Relationships are aggregated into graph edges, where the num-
ber of duplicates for a given relationship becomes edge weights. Claims are aggregated similarly.
In this manuscript, our analysis uses exact string matching for entity matching – the task of reconcil-
ing different extracted names for the same entity (Barlaug and Gulla, 2021; Christen and Christen,
2012; Elmagarmid et al., 2006). However, softer matching approaches can be used with minor ad-
justments to prompts or code. Furthermore, GraphRAG is generally resilient to duplicate entities
since duplicates are typically clustered together for summarization in subsequent steps.
3.1.4
Knowledge Graph →Graph Communities
Given the graph index created in the previous step, a variety of community detection algorithms
may be used to partition the graph into communities of strongly connected nodes (e.g., see the
surveys by Fortunato (2010) and Jin et al. (2021)). In our pipeline, we use Leiden community
detection (Traag et al., 2019) in a hierarchical manner, recursively detecting sub-communities within
each detected community until reaching leaf communities that can no longer be partitioned.
5
Each level of this hierarchy provides a community partition that covers the nodes of the graph in a
mutually exclusive, collectively exhaustive way, enabling divide-and-conquer global summarization.
An illustration of such hierarchical partitioning on an example dataset can be found in Appendix B.
3.1.5
Graph Communities →Community Summaries
The next step creates report-like summaries of each community in the community hierarchy, using
a method designed to scale to very large datasets. These summaries are independently useful as a
way to understand the global structure and semantics of the dataset, and may themselves be used to
make sense of a corpus in the absence of a specific query. For example, a user may scan through
community summaries at one level looking for general themes of interest, then read linked reports
at a lower level that provide additional details for each subtopic. Here, however, we focus on their
utility as part of a graph-based index used for answering global queries.
GraphRAG generates community summaries by adding various element summaries (for nodes,
edges, and related claims) to a community summary template. Community summaries from lower-
level communities are used to generate summaries for higher-level communities as follows:
• Leaf-level communities. The element summaries of a leaf-level community are prioritized
and then iteratively added to the LLM context window until the token limit is reached.
The prioritization is as follows: for each community edge in decreasing order of combined
source and target node degree (i.e., overall prominence), add descriptions of the source
node, target node, the edge itself, and related claims.
• Higher-level communities. If all element summaries fit within the token limit of the con-
text window, proceed as for leaf-level communities and summarize all element summaries
within the community. Otherwise, rank sub-communities in decreasing order of element
summary tokens and iteratively substitute sub-community summaries (shorter) for their
associated element summaries (longer) until they fit within the context window.
3.1.6
Community Summaries →Community Answers →Global Answer
Given a user query, the community summaries generated in the previous step can be used to generate
a final answer in a multi-stage process. The hierarchical nature of the community structure also
means that questions can be answered using the community summaries from different levels, raising
the question of whether a particular level in the hierarchical community structure offers the best
balance of summary detail and scope for general sensemaking questions (evaluated in section 4).
For a given community level, the global answer to any user query is generated as follows:
• Prepare community summaries. Community summaries are randomly shuffled and divided
into chunks of pre-specified token size. This ensures relevant information is distributed
across chunks, rather than concentrated (and potentially lost) in a single context window.
• Map community answers. Intermediate answers are generated in parallel. The LLM is also
asked to generate a score between 0-100 indicating how helpful the generated answer is in
answering the target question. Answers with score 0 are filtered out.
• Reduce to global answer. Intermediate community answers are sorted in descending order
of helpfulness score and iteratively added into a new context window until the token limit
is reached. This final context is used to generate the global answer returned to the user.
3.2
Global Sensemaking Question Generation
To evaluate the effectiveness of RAG systems for global sensemaking tasks, we use an LLM to
generate a set of corpus-specific questions designed to asses high-level understanding of a given
corpus, without requiring retrieval of specific low-level facts. Instead, given a high-level description
of a corpus and its purposes, the LLM is prompted to generate personas of hypothetical users of
the RAG system. For each hypothetical user, the LLM is then prompted to specify tasks that this
user would use the RAG system to complete. Finally, for each combination of user and task, the
LLM is prompted to generate questions that require understanding of the entire corpus. Algorithm
1 describes the approach.
6
Algorithm 1: Prompting Procedure for Question Generation
1: Input: Description of a corpus, number of users K, number of tasks per user N, number of
questions per (user, task) combination M.
2: Output: A set of K ∗N ∗M high-level questions requiring global understanding of the corpus.
3: procedure GENERATEQUESTIONS
4:
Based on the corpus description, prompt the LLM to:
1. Describe personas of K potential users of the dataset.
2. For each user, identify N tasks relevant to the user.
3. Specific to each user & task pair, generate M high-level questions that:
• Require understanding of the entire corpus.
• Do not require retrieval of specific low-level facts.
5:
Collect the generated questions to produce K ∗N ∗M test questions for the dataset.
6: end procedure
For our evaluation, we set K = M = N = 5 for a total of 125 test questions per dataset. Table 1
shows example questions for each of the two evaluation datasets.
3.3
Criteria for Evaluating Global Sensemaking
Given the lack of gold standard answers to our activity-based sensemaking questions, we adopt
the head-to-head comparison approach using an LLM evaluator that judges relative performance
according to specific criteria. We designed three target criteria capturing qualities that are desirable
for global sensemaking activities.
Appendix F shows the prompts for our head-to-head measures computed using an LLM evaluator,
summarized as:
• Comprehensiveness. How much detail does the answer provide to cover all aspects and
details of the question?
• Diversity. How varied and rich is the answer in providing different perspectives and insights
on the question?
• Empowerment. How well does the answer help the reader understand and make informed
judgments about the topic?
Table 1: Examples of potential users, tasks, and questions generated by the LLM based on short
descriptions of the target datasets. Questions target global understanding rather than specific details.
Dataset
Example activity framing and generation of global sensemaking questions
Podcast
transcripts
User: A tech journalist looking for insights and trends in the tech industry
Task: Understanding how tech leaders view the role of policy and regulation
Questions:
1. Which episodes deal primarily with tech policy and government regulation?
2. How do guests perceive the impact of privacy laws on technology development?
3. Do any guests discuss the balance between innovation and ethical considerations?
4. What are the suggested changes to current policies mentioned by the guests?
5. Are collaborations between tech companies and governments discussed and how?
News
articles
User: Educator incorporating current affairs into curricula
Task: Teaching about health and wellness
Questions:
1. What current topics in health can be integrated into health education curricula?
2. How do news articles address the concepts of preventive medicine and wellness?
3. Are there examples of health articles that contradict each other, and if so, why?
4. What insights can be gleaned about public health priorities based on news coverage?
5. How can educators use the dataset to highlight the importance of health literacy?
7
Furthermore, we use a “control criterion” called Directness that answers “How specifically and
clearly does the answer address the question?”. In plain terms, directness evaluates the concision
of an answer in a generic sense that applies to any generated LLM summarization. We include it to
behave as a reference against which we can judge the soundness of results for the other criteria. Since
directness is effectively in opposition to comprehensiveness and diversity, we would not expect any
method to win across all four criteria.
In our evaluations, the LLM is provided with the question, the generated answers from two compet-
ing systems, and prompted to compare the two answers according to the criterion before giving a
final judgment of which answer is preferred. The LLM either indicates a winner; or, it returns a tie
if they are fundamentally similar. To account for the inherent stochasticity of LLM generation, we
run each comparison with multiple replicates and average the results across replicates and questions.
An illustration of LLM assessment for answers to a sample question can be found in Appendix D.
4
