 GraphRAG under Fire

 Jiacheng Liang†∗ Yuhui Wang†∗ Changjiang Li† Tanqiu Jiang† Rongyi Zhu†
 Neil Gong‡ Ting Wang†
 † ‡
 Stony Brook University Duke University




 Abstract—GraphRAG advances retrieval-augmented genera- GraphRAG
 User LLM




arXiv:2501.14050v4 [cs.LG] 14 Oct 2025
 tion (RAG) by structuring external knowledge as multi-scale Query x Prompt x, z








 1 4 Generator




 pω (y|x, z)
 6 5
 broad context and granular details in their generation. While Response y




 Generation
 GraphRAG has demonstrated success across domains, its secu-
 rity implications remain largely unexplored. To bridge this gap, Semantic 2
 3 Context z




 Search
 this work examines GraphRAG’s vulnerability to poisoning
 attacks, uncovering an intriguing security paradox: existing Retriever pω (z|x)




 Text Corpus
 RAG poisoning attacks are less effective under GraphRAG
 Indexing
 than conventional RAG, due to GraphRAG’s graph-based 0
 indexing and retrieval; yet, the same features also create new
 attack surfaces. We present G RAG P OISON, a novel attack that (Polluted) Knowledge Base
 exploits shared relations in the underlying knowledge graph to Adversary
 craft poisoning text capable of compromising multiple queries
 Figure 1: Poisoning attacks on GraphRAG.
 simultaneously. G RAG P OISON employs three key strategies: i)
 relation injection to introduce false knowledge, ii) relation information, adds it to the prompt, and generates responses
 enhancement to amplify poisoning influence, and iii) narrative using both the query and retrieved context, as illustrated in
 generation to embed malicious content within coherent text. Figure 1. Particularly, GraphRAG [7], [8], [9], [10] emerges
 Empirical evaluation across diverse datasets and models shows as one leading RAG paradigm. By converting external
 that G RAG P OISON substantially outperforms existing attacks in knowledge (e.g., text corpora) to a multi-scale knowledge
 terms of effectiveness (up to 98% success rate) and scalability graph, where nodes and edges represent entities and their
 (using less than 68% poisoning text) on multiple variants of relations, along with graph community summaries and seg-
 GraphRAG. We also explore potential defensive measures and mented text chunks, GraphRAG effectively integrates ex-
 their limitations, identifying promising directions for future ternal knowledge to enhance LLM generation, substantially
 research. 1 reducing hallucinations and biases [7].
 Despite success across various domains, RAG-based
 1. Introduction models are often vulnerable to adversarial poisoning attacks,
 due to their fundamental reliance on external information
 Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated ex- to construct knowledge bases [11]. These attacks, where
 ceptional capabilities in language understanding, reasoning, adversaries inject carefully crafted malicious content into
 and generation [1], [2], [3]. However, their applications face knowledge bases to compromise LLM generation, have been
 key challenges due to training data limitations: while real- extensively studied for conventional RAG frameworks [12],
 world knowledge evolves continuously, LLMs remain fixed [13], [14], [15]. In comparison, GraphRAG’s security im-
 at their training cutoff dates; further, their training data plications remain largely unexplored, raising key questions:
 often lacks in comprehensive representation for specialized RQ1: Are existing RAG poisoning attacks still effective
 domains such as medicine and cyber-security. Such knowl- under GraphRAG?
 edge gaps often manifest as hallucinations and biases in
 answering temporal and domain-specific queries [4]. RQ2: What unique vulnerabilities does GraphRAG have?
 To tackle such limitations, retrieval-augmented genera- RQ3: What potential defensive measures exist?
 tion (RAG) [5], [6] integrates LLMs with external knowl- Our Work. To bridge this critical gap, we conduct a
 edge bases. For each incoming query, RAG retrieves relevant systematic study on GraphRAG’s vulnerability to poisoning
 ∗ : The first two authors contributed equally. attacks, revealing the following key insights:
 1. All the source code and data are publicly available: https://github.com/ i) Existing RAG poisoning attacks are significantly
 JACKPURCELL/GraphRAG Under Fire less effective under GraphRAG. Recall that GraphRAG
represents external knowledge as a multi-scale graph (e.g., challenges, including how to accurately infer the underlying
entities, relations, and communities), and its graph-based graph structures and how to ensure the false information
indexing and retrieval pipeline often disrupts the intended becomes indexed by GraphRAG, preferentially retrieved for
effect of existing poisoning attacks: clean knowledge helps relevant queries, and ultimately trusted by the generator
neutralize malicious content during indexing, while the LLM, even potentially overriding conflicting legitimate in-
graph structure effectively guides LLM reasoning and en- formation in the context.
ables self-correction during inference. Empirical evaluation across multiple GraphRAG variants
 These design properties hinder existing attacks such as (e.g., GraphRAG [7] and LightRAG [8]) and datasets (e.g.,
P OISONED RAG, which rely on directly embedding mislead- geographic, medical, and cyber-security) demonstrates that
ing answers near target queries in the retrieval corpus. Our G RAG P OISON substantially outperforms existing attacks in
empirical findings (see §3) show that such query-specific terms of attack effectiveness (achieving up to 98% success
poisoning strategies suffer sharp performance degradation rate) and scalability (using 68% less poisoning text).
on GraphRAG compared to conventional RAG. With the iii) G RAG P OISON is resilient to representative defenses.
increasing number of target queries, existing poisoning We examine various defenses against poisoning attacks,
attacks [16] that generate query-specific malicious content including leveraging LLMs’ built-in knowledge to com-
become less practical due to the prohibitive computational bat poisoning knowledge, paraphrasing incoming queries,
cost, and more detectable due to the large corpus of poisoned and detecting false responses based on chain-of-thought
text [17], [18]. (CoT) consistency. However, G RAG P OISON remains effec-
 ii) Meanwhile, the same features create new attack sur- tive against these countermeasures, suggesting that G RAG -
faces. We present G RAG P OISON, an effective and scalable P OISON exploits GraphRAG’s fundamental vulnerabilities
black-box poisoning attack that exploits GraphRAG’s graph- and requires tailored defenses.
based indexing and retrieval. Intuitively, queries sharing Our Contributions. To the best of our knowledge, this
relations in the knowledge graph can be attacked simulta- represents the first work on exploring GraphRAG’s unique
neously. For instance, consider two queries “How to mitigate vulnerabilities to poisoning attacks. Our contributions are
the malware Stuxnet?” and “How to detect the malware summarized as follows.
Stuxnet”, both relying on the relation “Stuxnet uses DLL In-
jection”. Rather than attacking each query separately, inject- • We show that existing poisoning attacks, though effective
ing a false relation “Stuxnet uses Process Hollowing” into against conventional RAG, become significantly less ef-
the knowledge graph allows G RAG P OISON to compromise fective on GraphRAG due to its graph-based indexing and
both queries together, improving both attack effectiveness retrieval pipeline.
and scalability. • We further reveal that these same features also create

 Specifically, G RAG P OISON assumes the adversary can new vulnerabilities. We present G RAG P OISON, a novel
only inject limited poisoning text into GraphRAG’s text text-driven black-box attack tailored to GraphRAG that
corpora, without access to GraphRAG’s other components. crafts poisoning text targeting multiple queries simulta-
At a high level, G RAG P OISON crafts the poisoning text neously. Empirical evaluation shows that G RAG P OISON
in three key steps. 1) Relation selection – It identifies significantly outperforms existing attacks in terms of both
critical relations shared across multiple target queries by effectiveness and scalability on various graph-based RAG
analyzing their embedded relations; 2) Relation injection systems.
– For each selected relation, it generates a false substitute • We explore potential defensive measures against G RAG -

(e.g., replacing “Stuxnet uses DLL Injection” with “Stuxnet P OISON and their fundamental limitations, identifying
uses Process Hollowing”); 3) Relation enhancement – It several promising directions for future research.
further strengthens each injected relation by adding sup- This paper is structured as follows. We begin by review-
porting relations (e.g., “Process Hallowing is detectable by ing the fundamentals of GraphRAG and defining the threat
Process Creation”). To resolve potential conflicts between model in §2. We then demonstrate the reduced effectiveness
poisoning and clean text, it employs an adversarial LLM of conventional poisoning attacks on this new paradigm in
to generate coherent narratives that naturally embed the §3. We present G RAG P OISON, a novel attack designed to
malicious content. exploit GraphRAG’s unique architecture in §4, and empiri-
 Notably, while G RAG P OISON exploits GraphRAG’s cally validate its effectiveness and scalability in §5. Finally,
graph-based indexing and retrieval, it differs fundamentally we evaluate potential defensive measures in §6.
from conventional graph poisoning attacks [19], [20], [21],
[22] in critical aspects. Graph poisoning attacks assume ex-
plicit knowledge about the graph structures, whereas G RAG - 2. Preliminaries
P OISON must infer these underlying structures through
query analysis. Further, conventional attacks directly ma-
nipulate graph structures or node/edge features/embeddings, In this section, we introduce fundamental concepts and
while G RAG P OISON generates textual narratives that poi- assumptions used throughout this paper. The important no-
son the source corpus. This creates a range of non-trivial tations are summarized in Table 9.
 Source Entity Intermediate Entity Endpoint Entity

 Behavior prevention “How to mitigate the malware Stuxnet?” Behavior prevention
 on Endpoint on Endpoint
 “How to mitigate the malware Stuxnet?”

 Mitigate by Mitigate by
 Stuxnet DLL Injection Module Load Stuxnet DLL Injection Module Load

 Utilize Detect by Behavior prevention Utilize Detect by
 Stuxnet DLL Injection
 on Endpoint

 Utilize Mitigate by OS API
 Detect by OS API Detect by
 Execution
 Execution

 “How to detect the malware Stuxnet?”


 (a) (b) (c)

Figure 2: Schematic illustration of GraphRAG concepts: (a) A representative subgraph dynamically constructed by GraphRAG from a
text corpus, featuring explicit entities as nodes (e.g., “Stuxnet”, “DLL Injection”) and semantic relations as labeled edges (e.g., “Utilize”,
“Mitigate by”). (b) Visualization of a multi-hop query (“How to mitigate...”) traversing a path through connected entities and relations
within this text-derived graph. (c) Example of two related queries (“How to mitigate...” and “How to detect...”) that share common
underlying entities and relations within the graph structure. Crucially, GraphRAG constructs this graph by extracting text to serve as a
knowledge graph for answering queries, with an LLM employed throughout the whole process.

2.1. GraphRAG Unlike traditional knowledge graphs [19], [22], [23],
 GraphRAG’s knowledge graph represents entities and rela-
 As illustrated in Figure 1, a RAG model uses the user tions entirely as text, with an LLM employed throughout
query x to retrieve relevant knowledge z from a knowledge the process from corpus parsing and entity extraction to
base KB and uses it as context (in addition to x) when response generation. This design fully leverages the LLM’s
generating the response y . Typically, it consists of two text-parsing capabilities while enhancing the interpretability
components, a retriever pη (z|x) (parameterized by η ) that of the entire reasoning process.
fetches relevant knowledge z , and a generator pθ (y|x, z)
(parameterized by θ) that generates the response y based on 2.2. Multi-Hop Reasoning
the query x and the retrieved context z . At a high level,
GraphRAG works in two phases: indexing and reasoning. As GraphRAG organizes the knowledge base around
 Indexing – While conventional RAG typically stores entities and relations, we focus on multi-hop reasoning [24],
external knowledge (e.g., text corpora) as vectors optimized [25], where answering queries requires synthesizing knowl-
for similarity search, GraphRAG converts it into a multi- edge across multiple entities that may be either directly
scale knowledge graph, enabling complex entity relationship adjacent or connected through intermediate relations.
understanding and graph structure navigation. Typically, the
indexing process first divides the corpora into analyzable Example 2. In Figure 2(b), the multi-hop query “How
text chucks, then extracts entities (e.g., “Stuxnet” and “DLL to mitigate the malware Stuxnet?” involves two entities
Injection”) and their relations (e.g., “Stuxnet employs DLL “Stuxnet” and “Behavior Prevention on Endpoint”, con-
Injection”) to form the knowledge graph represented by nected by an intermediate entity “DLL Injection”.
descriptive text, and further performs hierarchical clustering
on the knowledge graph to discover community structures, We focus on multi-hop reasoning for three key reasons.
along with their summaries. i) It requires models to process and reason across multi-
 ple text chunks, effectively measuring reasoning capabili-
Example 1. Figure 2(a) shows a sub-graph of the knowl- ties [24], [25]. ii) In the context of GraphRAG, multi-hop
edge graph, where the nodes and edges represent entities reasoning manifests as knowledge graph traversal, leverag-
and their relations, respectively. ing its capability of interpreting implicit relations between
 connected entities. iii) The interplay between multiple en-
 Reasoning – GraphRAG supports two levels of rea- tities and relations introduces potential vulnerabilities to
soning: global reasoning about broad, corpora-wide ques- poisoning attacks.
tions through community summaries, and local reasoning In GraphRAG, where each query is potentially repre-
by exploring entity relations and neighborhood structures sented as a subgraph (query subgraph) in the knowledge
within the knowledge graph. This work mainly focuses on graph, we define queries as related if their corresponding
GraphRAG’s local reasoning capabilities, which highlight subgraphs share one or more relations. Queries that share
its key advantages over conventional RAG. Specifically, for relation r are referred to as r-dependent queries.
given query x, the retriever pη searches for the entities
V (x), relations R(x), text chucks T (x), and community Example 3. As shown in Figure 2(c), the two queries “How
summaries S(x) most relevant to x; the generator pθ then to mitigate the malware Stuxnet?” and “How to detect the
generates the response y based on the query x and the malware Stuxnet?” are related because they intersect on
context z = (V (x), R(x), S(x), T (x)). the relation of “Stuxnet utilizes DLL Injection”.
2.3. Threat Model While white-box P OISONED RAG employs methods
 such as Hotfilp [29] or GCG [30] to optimize poisoning
 We define the threat model for GraphRAG poisoning prefixes, these prefixes are often paraphrased or truncated
attacks. during GraphRAG’s indexing. Since GraphRAG’s reasoning
 Adversary’s Objectives. The adversary aims to manip- starts by computing similarity between queries and entity
ulate GraphRAG into producing incorrect responses for a descriptions in the knowledge graph (§2.1), rather than
given set of target multi-hop queries X . We consider two original text chunks, this white-box approach of minimizing
settings: untargeted attacks, where GraphRAG is misled to prefix-query similarity proves ineffective for GraphRAG.
provide arbitrary incorrect answers, and targeted attacks, Instead, we focus on black-box P OISONED RAG, which uses
where GraphRAG is manipulated to generate specific incor- LLMs to generate poisoning text containing the targeted
rect responses predetermined by the adversary. To simulate malicious response for each query, and concatenates the
realistic adversarial intent, we assume the adversary targets a original query with the poisoning text. Under the default
specific domain (e.g., medical or cybersecurity) and aims to setting, P OISONED RAG generates 5 copies of poisoning
degrade GraphRAG ’s performance on a fixed set of multi- text for each query, each limited to 30 tokens.
hop queries within that domain. These target queries rep- Datasets. As GraphRAG excels at synthesizing knowl-
resent the adversary’s intended query space and are drawn edge across multiple disparate text fragments, standard
from domain-specific datasets used in our evaluation. question-answering (QA) benchmarks such as Natural Ques-
 Adversary’s Capabilities. The adversary crafts poison- tions [31], HotpotQA [32], and MS-MARCO [33] do not
ing text Dpoison that is appended to the clean text cor- fully exercise such capabilities. We thus construct four
pus Dclean , Dclean ∪ Dpoison , which GraphRAG uses to domain-specific multi-hop query datasets following [22]:
build the knowledge base. The adversary cannot control any i) geographical, ii) medical, iii) cyber-security, and iv)
components of GraphRAG, including its indexing, retrieval, MuSiQue. MuSiQue [34] is a publicly available common
and generation processes. The adversary has access to an knowledge dataset that provides auxiliary annotations in-
adversarial LLM (either open-source or via API). dicating shared relation IDs across questions, which we
 Adversary’s Knowledge. In this study, we assume a leverage to construct additional domain-specific multi-hop
black-box setting where the adversary has no access to the queries. Using the approach from [32] to generate user
clean text corpus Dclean or any internal components of queries, each dataset contains approximately 300 queries.
GraphRAG, including the retriever pη , generator pθ , and The details of dataset construction are deferred to §B.
the underlying graph structure. We refer to this scenario Metrics. We measure attack effectiveness using the met-
as KG-agnostic, where the adversary must infer entities ric of attack success rate (ASR), defined as the fraction
and relations in the knowledge graph solely based on the of successfully attacked target queries. Under untargeted
target queries. This threat model aligns with prior work on attacks, the attack on query x is successful if GraphRAG’s
knowledge poisoning attacks [12], [13], [15] and reflects the response ŷ differs from the ground-truth answer y ; under
practical risks for GraphRAG. targeted attacks, the attack succeeds if ŷ matches the adver-
 sary’s desired answer y ∗ . Formally, for untargeted attacks,
