3. RQ1: Performance of Conventional RAG P
 1ŷ̸=y
 (x,y)∈X
Poisoning on GraphRAG ASR = (1)
 |X|
 We first evaluate the performance of conventional RAG where |X| represents the number of total target queries and
poisoning attack on GraphRAG and investigate the under- 1p is the indicator function, which returns 1 if p is true and
lying factors contributing to its reduced effectiveness. 0 otherwise.

3.1. Experimental Setting 3.2. Experimental Results
 RAG. We evaluate NaiveRAG [26], [8] as the con- As summarized in Table 1, P OISONED RAG’s perfor-
ventional RAG and GraphRAG [7] and LightRAG [8] as mance degrades on both GraphRAG and LightRAG com-
GraphRAG-based implementations. For GraphRAG and pared to NaiveRAG across all settings. For instance, on the
LightRAG, we use GPT-4o-mini [27] as the underlying Geographical dataset, the ASR against NaiveRAG is over
LLM. 10% higher than against GraphRAG or LightRAG.
 Attacks. We use P OISONED RAG [28] as the represen- To illustrate the observed ASR gap on GraphRAG and
tative poisoning attack, which generates poisoning text for NaiveRAG, we consider a multi-hop query “How to mitigate
each query by directly providing an incorrect answer. the malware Stuxnet?”. The correct reasoning involves in-
 termediate steps “Stuxnet utilizes DLL Injection” and “DLL
Example 4. In Figure 2(a), the poisoning text generated by
 Injection can be mitigated by Behavior Prevention on End-
P OISONED RAG for query “How to mitigate the malware
 point”. P OISONED RAG directly concatenates the subject
Stuxnet?” can be “Stuxnet can be mitigated by Network
 to an incorrect mitigation (e.g., “Stuxnet can be mitigated
Intrusion Prevention and User Training.”
 by Network Intrusion Prevention and User Training”). For
 Relation Selection Relation Injection Relation Enhancement
 Target Queries (Speculative) Query Sub-graphs (Speculative) Enhancement
 Injection
 Target Relation
 Relation ? Sub-graph ur ur r → vr→




 vr→




 ur r →




















 Extraction Merging




 r




 r vr+




 ?




 vr




 vr




 … … Narrative Generation
 Narrative Generation

 →
 Enhancement Description d+




 Injection Description dr




 r
 = Poisoning Text dpoison




 r

Figure 3: Overview of G RAG P OISON. G RAG P OISON operates through three phases: (i) Relation Selection: Identifying critical shared
relations from inferred query-related subgraphs using LLM’s chain-of-thought reasoning. (ii) Relation Injection: Injecting deceptive
competing relations (r∗ ) through semantically crafted textual descriptions (d∗r ), concealed within logical “covering narratives” (iii) Relation
Enhancement: Strengthening injected relations by creating supporting textual narratives (d+ r ) to boost their centrality and retrieval
priority. Unlike traditional graph poisoning attacks that assume explicit graph knowledge and directly manipulate structures or node/edge
features/embeddings, G RAG P OISON must infer relevant graph portions (i.e. Relation Selection) and then generate poisoning textual
narratives targeting the source corpus (i.e. Relation Injection, Relation Enhancement).

TABLE 1: Attack effectiveness of P OISONED RAG on NaiveRAG statements introduced by P OISONED RAG, thereby under-
and two Graph-based RAG (i.e., GraphRAG and LightRAG) mining its effectiveness.
 Graph-based RAG
 Dataset NaiveRAG 4. GRAGPoison
 GraphRAG LightRAG
 Next, we introduce G RAG P OISON, a novel attack de-
 MuSiQue 88.4% 57.6% 59.6%
 signed specifically for GraphRAG that addresses key limi-
 Geographical 71.6% 59.3% 61.9%
 tations of existing attacks. Our attack innovates in two ways:
 Medical 69.5% 58.9% 56.8%
 it achieves higher effectiveness by poisoning relations rather
 Cyber-Security 97.4% 68.4% 63.2%
 than answers to exploit GraphRAG’s graph-based retrieval,
 and it improves scalability by generating poisoning text that
NaiveRAG, this poisoning text, with high textual similarity compromises multiple queries simultaneously.
to the query, would likely be retrieved and passed to the As illustrated in Figure 3, G RAG P OISON operates in
generator LLM, leading to an incorrect answer. However, three phases: i) relation selection (§4.1) – it employs an
GraphRAG’s processes inherently provide resilience. During LLM to extract and identify critical relations shared across
the indexing phase, GraphRAG’s use of LLMs to extract target queries; ii) relation injection (§4.2) – it generates
entity and relation descriptions during indexing can nega- poisoning text to inject competing relations that substitute
tively impact poisoning effectiveness. Specifically, the LLM the selected shared relations; iii) relation enhancement (§4.3)
may omit critical information from the poisoning text during – it generates additional poisoning text to create supporting
extraction. Further, even under controlled conditions (zero relations that strengthen the injected relations and ensure
temperature and explicit prompting), the LLM tends to gen- their retrieval by GraphRAG.
erate accurate descriptions when encountering both original
