and poisoning content in the same context window, as its 4.1. Relation Selection
deterministic nature prioritizes more reliable and coherent
knowledge over inconsistent or conflicting information. For a given set of target queries X , G RAG P OISON first
 Moreover, even if a weak poisoned relation is added identifies the entities and relations involved in X .
to the graph, GraphRAG’s reasoning phase prioritizes re- In the simple setting that the adversary is aware of the
lations (Rx ) connected to high-degree entities during re- underlying knowledge graph, it is trivial to match each
trieval. Established entities like “DLL Injection” likely have query x ∈ X to a subgraph in the knowledge graph and
high degrees, while a newly introduced entity like “User explicitly identify relations shared across queries. We focus
Training” from the simple poison text would have a low on the setting that given target queries set X , the adversary
degree. This degree-based prioritization neutralizes P OI - must deduce the underlying subgraph corresponding to each
SONED RAG’s strategy, making the low-degree poisoned x ∈ X without direct knowledge graph access. To achieve
path unlikely to be included in the final context compared this, G RAG P OISON exploits the adversarial LLM’s chain-of-
to the legitimate path through higher-degree nodes. Thus, thought (CoT) reasoning capability. With careful prompting
due to the combined effects of filtering during graph-based (details in §D.2), the LLM breaks down each multi-hop
indexing and prioritization during graph-based retrieval, query into step-by-step reasoning [35] and infers intermedi-
GraphRAG is less likely to be swayed by isolated poisoned ate entities and relations. Further, the LLM identifies shared
relations across queries by aggregating these intermediates, in GraphRAG’s retrieval, we aim to optimize dr∗ as:
accounting for different references to the same entities and X
relations. d∗r = arg max sim(emb(x), emb(d)), (2)
 d
 x∈Xr
Example 5. Given queries “How to mitigate the malware One straightforward approach is to create d∗r that concate-
Stuxnet?” and “How to detect the malware Stuxnet?”, nates all queries in Xr to ensure high semantic similarity.
G RAG P OISON deduces their query subgraphs and iden- However, this poisoning text bloats with the number of
tifies a shared relation: “Stuxnet uses {a kind of attack relevant queries Xr , impacting the attack’s scalability and
method}”. Note that the attack method entity remains stealthiness.
unspecified at this stage. Instead, G RAG P OISON exploits the key property that all
 queries in Xr typically have high semantic similarity with
 Formally, for each query x ∈ X , G RAG P OISON iden- the description dr of their shared relation r. This similarity
tifies Vx and Rx as entities and relations involved in x. exists because queries seeking information about a specific
To minimize the amount of poisoning text, G RAG P OISON relation naturally use language that aligns with the relation’s
strategically selects and poisons a subset of relations shared core concepts. For instance, in Example 3, both queries
across multiple queries. We define that relation r “covers” show high semantic similarity with their shared relation’s
query x if r ∈ Rx . This formulation reduces to the classical description: “The malware Stuxnet utilizes DLL Injection”,
set cover problem [36]. To identify an (approximately) min- despite neither query explicitly mentioning “DLL Injection”.
imal subset of relations, G RAG P OISON employs a greedy Thus, G RAG P OISON crafts d∗r by retaining all content in
algorithm as sketched in Algorithm 1, which iteratively dr and only replacing entity vr with vr∗ , as illustrated in
selects the relation that covers the maximum number of Figure 4(b).
previously uncovered queries, achieving the best possible
polynomial-time approximation of the optimal subset. Example 6. The original relation r is described as dr :
 “The malware Stuxnet utilizes DLL Injection”; The injected
 Algorithm 1: Selection of target relations. relation r∗ is described as d∗r : “The malware Stuxnet
 Input: X : target queries utilizes Process Hollowing”.
 Output: R: target relations
 1 R ← ∅; Despite its simplicity, merely injecting the poisoning
 2 while X are not fully covered do text d∗r proves insufficient. When GraphRAG retrieves the
 3 select r ∈ ∪x∈X Rx that maximally covers queries in original description dr and the injected text d∗r from its
 X;
 4 add r to R;
 knowledge base, it can detect their logical inconsistency
 5 remove covered queries from X ; and trigger errors. To circumvent this conflict detection, we
 conceal the poisoning text d∗r within a “covering narrative”
 6 return R;
 by employing three complementary strategies: i) temporal
 ordering – establishing that r∗ occurs after r, ii) explicit
 negation – specifying that r∗ supersedes r, and iii) contex-
4.2. Relation Injection tual explanation – providing a plausible rationale for this
 supersession. The adversarial LLM generates the poisoning
 To poison each target relation r ∈ R identified in the text d∗r following these covering narrative strategies (detailed
previous step, G RAG P OISON injects a competing relation r∗ prompting deferred to §D.1).
into GraphRAG’s knowledge base to subvert its processing
 Example 7. The poisoning text d∗r in Example 6 is con-
of r-dependent queries Xr . Specifically, for relation r =
 cealed by a covering narrative: “After 2024/03/10, the
(ur , vr ) that connects entity ur to entity vr , G RAG P OISON
 malware Stuxnet does not utilize DLL Injection anymore;
introduces a competing relation r∗ = (ur , vr∗ ) that links ur
 instead, the malware Stuxnet utilizes Process Hollowing.
to a different entity vr∗ (of the same entity type as vr ). Since
 This change occurs due to the update of Stuxnet.”
this modification affects all queries in Xr simultaneously,
this attack is more efficient compared to existing attacks [12] The refined poisoning text d∗r maintains logical consis-
that require query-specific poisoning. Next, we detail how tency with the original description dr while establishing
to craft the poisoning text d∗r to achieve this goal. chronological precedence. Moreover, due to this temporal
 Recall that during GraphRAG’s retrieval of entities V (x) ordering, GraphRAG tends to prioritize the substitution en-
relevant to query x, each entity v is ranked based on its simi- tity vr∗ over the original entity vr in the retrieved entities
larity to x, which is typically calculated based on the textual V (x) for each query x ∈ Xr .
embeddings of x and v ’s description: sim(emb(x), emb(v)),
where sim(·, ·) and emb(·) denote the similarity (e.g., co- 4.3. Relation Enhancement
sine) and embedding functions, respectively. Then, the en-
tities most similar to x are selected. Unlike conventional RAG, GraphRAG additionally uses
 By treating the poisoning text dr∗ as a part of the com- query x-relevant relations R(x) and community summaries
peting entity vr∗ ’s description, to ensure that vr∗ is selected S(x) in its response generation. This feature makes simple
 Source Entity Intermediate Entity Injected Competing Entity Supporting Entity


 PoisonedRAG GragPoison - Relation Injection GragPoison -Relation Enhancement

 Stuxnet DLL Injection Stuxnet DLL Injection
 “How to mitigate the malware Stuxnet?” Utilize Utilize


 Process Utilize
 “Stuxnet can be mitigated by Network Utilize
 Hollowing
 Intrusion Prevention and User Training.” Process
 Detect by
 Hollowing
 Detect by


 “How to detect the malware Stuxnet?” “The malware Stuxnet utilizes DLL
 Process
 injection”
 Creation

 “Stuxnet can be detected by Process “The malware Stuxnet utilizes “Process Creation can detect Process Hollowing,
 Creation.” Process Hollowing” which is utilized by the malware Stuxnet”


 (a) (b) (c)

Figure 4: Example of attacking two related queries. (a) A baseline (P OISONED RAG) approach attacks each query separately with
distinct misinformation. (b) G RAG P OISON’s relation injection adds poisoning text (d∗r ) directly into the knowledge base, injecting a
competing relation (”Process Hollowing”) to override the original relation (“DLL Injection”). Note that in the KG-agnostic setting, the
target relation r is inferred by the adversary from query, and may not match the actual relation in the underlying knowledge graph. (c)
G RAG P OISON’s relation enhancement further creates supporting relations (d+ r ) into the knowledge base, reinforcing the presence of the
injected relation r∗ and entity vr∗ within both the retrieved relevant relations R(x) and community summaries S(x).

entity or relation injection ineffective, as R(x) and S(x) can Example 8. As illustrated in Figure 4(c), to strengthen the
interfere with and even neutralize the injected knowledge. injected relation r∗ (“Stuxnet utilizes Process Hollowing”),
To overcome this challenge, G RAG P OISON implements a one additional entity “Process Creation” is created and
relation enhancement strategy: it introduces additional poi- connected to the injected entity vr∗ (“Process Hollowing”);
soning text d+ r to create supporting relations that reinforce further, it is also connected to ur (“Stuxnet”). The resulting
the presence of the injected relation r∗ and entity vr∗ within poisoning text d+ r is generated as: “Process Creation can
both the retrieved relevant relations R(x) and community detect Process Hollowing, which is utilized by the malware
summaries S(x). Stuxnet. This change is due to technique improvement.”
 During retrieval, GraphRAG identifies query x-relevant While the enhancement strategy introduces additional
relations R(x) through hierarchical ranking: it first retrieves poisoning text, our experimental results (§5.3.2) demonstrate
all relations containing entities from the set of selected that successful attacks typically require only a small number
entities V (x); it then categorizes them as either internal of enhancement entities. As a result, G RAG P OISON’s total
(both endpoint entities from V (x)) or external (only one poisoning text requirement remains substantially lower than
endpoint entity from V (x)), with internal entities ranked benchmark attacks.
higher than external ones; the relations in each category Finally, the relational poisoning text dpoison for target
 r
are further ranked by their endpoint entities’ degrees. The relation r is formed by integrating the relation injection text
highest-ranked relations are retrieved as R(x). For commu- d∗r and the relation enhancement text d+ poison
 = d∗r ⊕d+
 r : dr r .
nity summaries, GraphRAG identifies the query-relevant set The overall poisoning dataset D poison
 concatenates the poi-
S(x) by ranking communities based on their entity coverage
 soning text for each target relation: Dpoison = ⊕r∈R dpoison
 r .
of V (x), where coverage is measured by the number of
entities from V (x) present in each community.
 Therefore, given the injected relation r∗ = (ur , vr∗ ),
 5. RQ2: GraphRAG’s Unique Vulnerability
G RAG P OISON employs a relation enhancement strategy that We leverage G RAG P OISON to exploit GraphRAG’s
targets both ranking schemes. i) It creates a set of supporting unique vulnerability to poisoning attacks.
entities Vr+ and connects them to vr∗ , directly increasing its
