[00:00-04:15] What Is Graph Engineering — Definitions and the Node Concept

Hey everyone, let's go ahead and get started with the graph engineering. This is Lakshmikanth from the KGP Talkie. Previously we had seen the loop engineering. As I told you during that lesson that the loop engineering was not a new technique. Similarly, graph engineering is again not a new technique. It is just a new name people have been using around. So, if you are getting into a promo, then don't worry about that. You already know the graph engineering. Let me explain you so that you can understand it properly and you can answer it in your interview or you can answer it at your job.

So, as I told you this graph engineering is not new because previously the LangGraph, you might have heard about the LangGraph. Probably you might have heard about the ADK, Google ADK, you might have heard about previously. All these have been already using these graph engineering technique. Apart from that you have the Microsoft's AutoGen as well. So, they all have used this graph engineering since many years. So, this graph engineering is just a new term. There is nothing new in this, but still I'll walk you through about the techniques of the graph engineering so that you can answer it at your job and in the interview.

So, first of all you need to understand what kind of agentic AI technique you have here. So, there are many agentic AI prompting technique. Basically, you have the prompt engineering, then you have the context engineering, then you have the harness engineering, then you have the loop engineering, and then finally you are going to have here the graph engineering.

So, let's say you have your AI agent here. So, inside this AI agent, whatever you are going to apply here at the input side, those are going to be the prompt engineering, context engineering, and the harness engineering. At the outside of this agent, you are going to apply your loop engineering. But, when we are going to talk about here, when we are talking about this whole thing together, and not just a single part here, basically we are talking about the multiple parts of this, then we are talking about the graph engineering. That means graph engineering is like a multiple loop engineering together.

Again, loop engineering is just a technique here where a multiple agents are working together, and that solution is trying to self-prompt itself. So, this is something which you had previously seen during our loop engineering lesson. A agent cannot self-prompt itself in a loop engineering. If agent is trying to self-prompt itself, then that is not correct technique. It cannot work. So, what was the technique there during the loop engineering? So, there you had agent one, then you have the agent two, then agent two was evaluating the response of agent one, and then it was prompting this agent one. So, how it was working here? So, if you say that this is whole solution, then this whole solution can be called as a self-prompting solution.

Now, similarly, if you have arranged multiple self-prompting solution in a coordinated manner, then they are actually a part of the graph engineering. For example, let's say you have your solution one as the viewer agent, and then you have your another solution, let's say this is the solution two, this one is solution one, and this one is the solution three. If they are arranged in a coordinated manner, then they are part of the graph engineering.

So, in graph engineering, what we do generally here, we actually create a node. All right, so these are known as here node. Each node are actually the agent, or they are a solution like this. I mean, they are self-prompting solution, or they are agent. But, they are orchestrated in such a way that you achieve your goal. That is why I told you earlier that this is not a new technique. You have already used. All of you, if you have implemented LangGraph or AutoGen, then you have already implemented this. All right, it is not new technique. It is just the name. All right, so graph engineering is just a name.
