AI is everywhere. The 
agentic organization 
isn’t—yet
Most companies are experimenting with AI, but few have realized its value. 
The real challenge isn’t the technology—it’s redesigning workflows, 
leadership, and culture for an agentic world.
April 2026
Yes, AI is astonishing: fast, powerful, and learning every day. But even as leaders strike up new 
pilots across their organizations, most still struggle to translate experimentation into enterprise 
value—and now, agentic AI is raising the stakes. In this episode of The McKinsey Podcast, 
McKinsey Senior Partner Alexis Krivkovich speaks with Global Editorial Director Lucia Rahilly 
about what it will take to build an “agentic organization”—from reimagining workflows to 
reshaping leadership roles, skills, and culture for a future where humans increasingly operate 
above the loop.
The McKinsey Podcast is cohosted by Lucia Rahilly and Roberta Fusaro.
The following transcript has been edited for clarity and length.
The great AI paradox
Lucia Rahilly: Alexis, we hear a lot about companies investing in agentic AI without realizing 
corresponding returns. In fact, our own research shows the complexity of delivering on the 
promise of agentic AI at any kind of scale. Where are we now?
Alexis Krivkovich: The great paradox is just that. Companies expect massive transformations 
from AI and have invested with that mindset. Yet more than 80 percent of companies say they’re 
not yet seeing impact on the bottom line from those investments.
The real question is “How do we meet this moment and create the agentic organization of the 
future?” In every conversation I have, leaders feel like they’re on the precipice of that question. 
What they’re trying to think through is really a set of questions: “How are roles going to change? 
What are the skills we’ll need in the future? How do I bring along our workforce with excitement, 
not fear? How do I drive that change so it hits every corner of the organization?”
Lucia Rahilly: The research outlines five pillars that make up the new agentic organization. Let’s 
start with the first, an organization’s business model. What are some examples that help 
illustrate the value at stake for leaders?
Alexis Krivkovich: Suppose the world could move toward near-zero marginal cost of delivery. 
How would that change what you’re able to bring to customers, how you’re able to tailor and 
hypersegment to the unit of one, and how you think about that in the context of mobilizing 
growth? What does it look like if you’re a tech player that does content distribution and you can 
tailor experience down to the individual consumer across millions of people? What does that 
open up in terms of how you create and enable commerce?
If you take that a step further, the question becomes “On the receiving end, what if the small 
business or individual has agents interacting on their behalf?” For example, imagine a customer 
has an agent that can move money frictionlessly across bank accounts to seek the best rate. 
That fundamentally changes the moat that has existed in financial services since the beginning 
AI is everywhere. The agentic organization isn’t—yet
2
of time. We don’t do this now because the process of making these changes is incredibly hard. If 
that suddenly goes away, the entirety of how you think about your business model, both the 
opportunity and the risk associated with competitive threat, changes.
Rethinking teams for the agentic era
Lucia Rahilly: You’re one of the global leaders of our People & Organizational Performance 
Practice. Talk to us about how you see team structures functioning in this agentic era.
Alexis Krivkovich: The real promise with agentic, relative to generative AI or previous evolutions 
of AI, is that you can have the equivalent of superhuman capabilities added to your teams. But 
the day-to-day workflows and the rituals around ways of working will need to fundamentally 
change.
That’s what we mean when we say the operating model needs to shift. You need to think about 
how the hours of the day happen differently, the process of overseeing an agent population, 
how you engage in problem-solving as a team—and put the right governance and risk controls 
on top of that.
For most companies, this is all new ground. We now have the opportunity and the challenge to 
grapple with it nearly everywhere simultaneously because the use cases are so broad.
Lucia Rahilly: As you note, it’s super early, and everyone’s model is being upended. But let’s 
take your work with pioneers in this area. Where are folks starting in terms of rethinking their 
org charts, for example?
Alexis Krivkovich: Org charts are tricky. We’re still too early to say, and the answer may look 
quite different across domains.
Take pharma: A lot of life sciences and pharma companies are envisioning huge squads of 
agents in the R&D space. That doesn’t mean the researchers and scientists they have today will 
be replaced in the org chart. It means they’ll be able to supercharge the speed at which they can 
innovate.
But in some other areas—HR, finance, legal—companies envision corporate functions as cost 
centers that deliver critical execution capabilities but don’t drive the front end of value 
generation. There’s a real hope that the agentic capability can transform how that work gets 
done and who does it, to enable more capacity in other aspects of the business.
Most companies have added at least one layer to their structure, from the CEO all the way to the 
front line, over the past decade. In some organizations, it’s more like two or three layers. Not 
only is that expensive, it also slows decision-making because more people weigh in before any 
decision can be made. There’s hope that AI will enable leaders to have a more superhuman 
AI is everywhere. The agentic organization isn’t—yet
3
‘The day-to-day workflows and the 
rituals around ways of working will 
need to fundamentally change.’
capacity to manage across bigger scopes. That would allow companies to flatten their structure 
and get faster in the process.
Lucia Rahilly: What should leaders be doing to develop the skills they need both to manage 
broader spans of talent and to oversee agentic tech?
Alexis Krivkovich: Just about everybody in the workforce is going to need a new job description 
in the next two to three years. Most roles won’t go away, but they’ll be reshaped. Seventy-five 
percent of roles need fundamental reshaping right now. That includes people leading teams and 
those who report to them.
So when we ask about capability-building needs, nearly half of leaders say they think they see 
skill gaps in their organization. And most would say they’d really benefit from more training, 
more capability building, and more support—all the way up to senior leadership.
What ‘reimagining workflows’ really means
Lucia Rahilly: We talk a lot about reimagining workflows from end to end. What does this look 
like in practice, and what are the potential implications?
Alexis Krivkovich: The best use cases, where AI is enabling scalable impact, are where a 
workflow can be reimagined in its entirety. That’s because those workflows typically cut across 
multiple teams and areas of a company. In a traditional context, there’s a lot of connecting the 
dots across touchpoints and people. This is where agentic can be incredibly valuable because it 
can be part of that connection stream in a fast, multifaceted way.
So for companies, instead of point solutions, where you take one task and use AI to accomplish 
it better and faster, we’re now talking about a whole workflow: How do I take something like 
insurance underwriting and rethink that end to end? How do I take the HR “hire to onboard” 
process and reimagine that end to end? That’s where we’re seeing the magic start to happen.
But that’s also deep, granular work. You have to rethink a whole process and ask, “Where does 
it benefit from having an agent? Where do I need a human in the loop, or above the loop, to 
AI is everywhere. The agentic organization isn’t—yet
4
‘Seventy-five percent of roles need 
fundamental reshaping right now. That 
includes people leading teams and 
those who report to them.’
supervise? Where do I need a team of agents? How do I make them reusable, so once they’re 
trained, I can deploy them in multiple places?”
That’s the systems thinking that is starting to unlock opportunities at scale, and it has exciting 
potential. But it requires a set of individuals who can do that type of problem-solving and 
leaders who can pick areas ripe for being lighthouse use cases.
Lucia Rahilly: What would the composition of a team thinking about reimagining certain 
processes look like?
Alexis Krivkovich: I think this change, bringing together multiple levels of the workforce 
simultaneously, is one of the really exciting opportunities with AI. The potential is actually up and 
down the chain of command, the hierarchy of the organization. You need people at all levels 
thinking about how that process could look different.
A huge part of the unlock with agentic is executive function—reviewing the results of work done. 
You still need human judgment, but you have the potential to take tasks historically done by 
managers, or even senior leaders, and do much of the quality control, review, and pattern 
recognition assessment through the agentic process. This means you need folks at all levels, 