from leaders down to employees deep in the day-to-day flow of work, to be involved in thinking 
about how the process would look different.
Lucia Rahilly: Does that also have implications for the organization of the tech function?
Alexis Krivkovich: There are different models playing out. Many companies are creating SWAT-
type teams that they can draw on, from within tech, to enable change. Others are embedding 
expertise inside each area of the business. It’s a classic example of trying to both change 
yourself and transform the organization at the same time.
AI is everywhere. The agentic organization isn’t—yet
5
‘The potential is actually up and down 
the chain of command, the hierarchy of 
the organization. You need people at 
all levels thinking about how that 
process could look different.’
What the agentic paradigm shift means for leadership
Lucia Rahilly: In the research, you call this the biggest paradigm shift since the industrial and 
digital revolutions. How should executives be thinking about leading organizational change at 
that scale?
Alexis Krivkovich: One big question for leaders is “How do I need to show up differently to lead 
the organization forward?” And as one said, “If this will radically transform everything about our 
business, we as a leadership team need to start by radically transforming ourselves.” In other 
words, is 50 percent of my time spent differently because I can access AI to do my job? Or am I 
dabbling—tightening an email here, querying there, but not really rethinking the hours of my 
day? If I am radically changing how I spend my time, how do I talk about that within the 
organization?
A huge trust gap exists today. Some of the early experimentation with AI has proven to have real 
faults—the hallucination stories we read in the headlines are real. And the slop that moves 
around a company through poor use of AI can create more work, not less. So how do you, as a 
leader, get people excited about what’s possible while overlaying good judgment and risk 
management? How do you acknowledge that we’re in a learning mode rather than a mature 
state of deployment?
Lucia Rahilly: There must be a certain amount of resistance that’s fear-driven as well. Folks 
think they may lose their jobs and be replaced by agentic AI.
Alexis Krivkovich: The technology is not going to stop. There’s that line, you won’t be replaced 
by AI, but you may be replaced by someone who embraces AI before you do. I think that’s a real 
question for the employee base. And as a leader, how do I get you excited about new skills, new 
tooling that could make you more successful? And if that’s not in this role, because this role will 
transform so dramatically, perhaps it’s in an adjacent role.
AI is everywhere. The agentic organization isn’t—yet
6
When judgment becomes the job
Lucia Rahilly: On that topic, do you see any new talent profiles that you think will be essential? 
How might employees begin to develop those skills?
Alexis Krivkovich: Some of the skills being affected you’d expect, because AI is really good at 
research, math, data science. But other aspects of those skill profiles are becoming even more 
prominent: strategic thinking, systems orientation, people management soft skills—they’re all on 
the rise. In an AI-augmented world, the first set of skills is still needed but you can do much 
more with them with the assistance of agents. What we’ll need even more of is oversight, 
judgment, problem-solving capabilities, and the operational capabilities human leaders bring as 
the overlay.
Lucia Rahilly: We’ve previously referred to humans in the loop. In this latest piece, I noticed we 
seem to be evolving toward humans “above the loop.” Is that a relevant difference?
Alexis Krivkovich: Yes. It’s a great distinction. To be clear, we will see both in the future. Having 
a human in the loop suggests agents are doing pieces of the process, then passing it to a human 
who does other pieces. Having a human above the loop suggests that if we get to a place where 
teams of AI agents are able to do most, if not the entire core process, the human’s role becomes 
judgment on top.
Let me give you an example. We’ve reimagined the American Arbitration Association’s process 
when a case is sent in for review. The traditional process involves gathering hundreds, if not 
thousands, of different data points, including photographic exhibits of contracts and email 
exchanges; reviewing the case file; and deciding on the right answer based on the terms of the 
agreement. This can take a really long time.
So we asked: “Could we train agents, using closed case files, to put together the timeline, review 
the fact base, look at both sides of the argument, and come to a summary decision?” We found 
that these agents could not only do much of the core work but, in some cases, do it better. You 
still need a human to look at that whole process and ask, “Do I agree with the decision the 
agents have come to?” It’s still incredibly critical to have that judgment layer, that human layer. 
But a lot of the work underneath can be done end to end by agentic AI.
Lucia Rahilly: Judgment is developed over time. How do junior employees develop the skills to 
oversee AI without the hazing grunt work their leaders did in the pre-agentic era?
Alexis Krivkovich: This is the billion-dollar question. If you eliminate every new software 
engineer, you have a very expensive model of only senior folks. If you roll that movie forward ten 
years, you’re also missing the next generation of talent you need.
AI is everywhere. The agentic organization isn’t—yet
7
‘If you eliminate every new software 
engineer, you have a very expensive 
model of only senior folks. If you roll 
that movie forward ten years, you’re 
also missing the next generation of 
talent you need.’
The investment in learning and development is a bit of a sidecar. It’s viewed as important. It’s 
certainly valued by employees. But it runs periodically. In the future, I think it should be at the 
center of the journey people go on as employees, because the next generation will have access 
to all these tools from day one. So while they may not have the pattern recognition of 20 years 
of reviewing case law, they also won’t have the hurdle of being 20 years into a career and trying 
to figure out a massively disruptive and powerful technology for the first time. So leaders should ask, 
“How do I make that access from day one actually work to their advantage?”
The other aspect is capability building to help people see that change management is no longer 
an episodic thing. It’s a perpetual state. And we’re going to have to get really good at being 
comfortable in constant change without introducing chaos and risk into the organization.
Talent in a time of change
Lucia Rahilly: Any thoughts on how these changes will affect the shape of an organization’s 
talent hierarchy?
Alexis Krivkovich: I think it’s too early to have an answer on the final state of the shape of 
organizations. AI will absolutely enable that.
For example, there’s a lot of excitement about organizing around pods of work as opposed to 
traditional job hierarchies—pods that form and reform, are reusable, and move across the 
organization more nimbly. That’s really hard for companies to do in practice. You need a job 
hierarchy so people can be evaluated and know whom to go to for managerial support.
So I think we’re still pretty far away from seeing most companies reorganize themselves around that 
principle. But I do think this idea of fluid talent flows is going to increase. Organizations that have an 
HR function that enables this flow and can support nimbler movement of talent will have a 
competitive advantage.
AI is everywhere. The agentic organization isn’t—yet
8
‘Change management is no longer an 
episodic thing. It’s a perpetual state.’
Lucia Rahilly: What are the implications for organizational culture in the context of a 
transformation of this magnitude?
Alexis Krivkovich: In this moment, organizations that foster curiosity and continuous learning 
will be in a great space because so much is still unknown. We need people who want to 
experiment and learn.
The people who can do joint problem-solving, who can bring together people from across the 
organization, coach them on how to work into new models to explore the change with optimism 
and not fear—those people will be a premium as well.
We also need people who can strike the critical balance between taking some risks and not 
betting the company. This is going to be one of those moments where we have to be highly 
iterative. We need two-way doors, not one-way doors. We need situations where we can 
experiment and explore. And if it doesn’t work, we pull back and go into the next pathway.
Lucia Rahilly: Super interesting. Alexis, thanks so much for joining us today.
Alexis Krivkovich: It was such a pleasure.
Alexis Krivkovich is a senior partner in McKinsey’s Bay Area office. Lucia Rahilly is the global editorial director 
and deputy publisher of McKinsey Global Publishing and is based in the New York office, and Roberta Fusaro is 
an editorial director in the Boston office.
Copyright © 2026 McKinsey & Company. All rights reserved.
AI is everywhere. The agentic organization isn’t—yet
9